---
layout: post
title: A rear view of my Egraphs experience
---

It’s been over a month since we [shuttered Egraphs](http://www.insidesocal.com/tomhoffarth/2013/05/02/why-egraphs-finally-had-to-sign-off/). I waited a while before writing to give myself some distance, since the last months of Egraphs were often quite painful as we weighed whether and how to end the company and how to navigate when the end seemed near.

I have a lot of warm memories about this period in my life. I recall that, before launch, we worried over whether we would sell a single Egraph to someone not related to us. And to be honest, up until then had I felt like we were building a toy. I found it extremely gratifying once we saw how meaningful it was that our customers could interact with their heroes and that they did so using our service. In the words of Tony Hsieh, we were in the business of [delivering happiness](http://www.amazon.com/Delivering-Happiness-Profits-Passion-Purpose/dp/160941280X), and our company was about delivering happiness to both our customers and to ourselves. We didn’t do things perfectly, but I would give ourselves passing grades and no regrets.

You learn a lot the first time you start a company. Of course, I gained a lot of coding experience from developing a website from scratch while working full-stack. I learned Scala, the language we chose for the server codebase. I also learned about hiring and building a company culture and about iterating — the sort of stuff that is often discussed at startup speaking events. (By the way, [Getting Real](http://gettingreal.37signals.com/), a book on product management by 37signals, is a really great read for anyone building a company or product.)

I also learned things that I don’t ever recall being discussed at startup events. The most important lesson has to do with, what is the proper relationship between founders and their board? In the context of a startup, a board’s first priority may be toward their investment, whereas the founder’s priority is to the success of the company. This is a subtle but potentially substantial difference. Company management needs to do what it takes to make the company successful and not just what the board wants them to do. I wouldn’t be surprised if many first-time entrepreneurs don’t realize this at the beginning of their startup journeys. I think it takes experience and it definitely takes confidence.

Finally, I want the next company I found to be one that I want to devote a career to. Entrepreneurship is hard and rough patches should be expected. When the going gets tough, I want a sense of mission to carry me through those rough patches. “Work on what you’re passionate about” is advice that is often passed around the startup community, and I believe it even more now to a degree that would not have been possible before my Egraphs experience.
